#summary The original user stories, as of 2008-FEB-11 to 2009-JUN-21.
#labels Phase-Requirements,Deprecated

A list of user stories mostly gathered and evaluated at the 2007 kickoff meeting in Toronto.

The user stories came out of a brainstorming session on 2007-JUN-5.  The story numbers start at 2, since they were entered into a spreadsheet with a header row and referred to by row number.

The user stories have been edited for spelling and grammar, and clarified where necessary.

User stories are considered to be in scope if some part of them implies an in-scope requirement of the protocol.

----

= In-Scope Stories =

== Authorization of content (server) ==
As the service provider I need to know whether or not that player "X" is authorised to receive book "Y". _(Author: Ed Chandler. Orignally In-Scope Story 2.)_

== Different devices, same content ==
As a user I want to use different devices to play the same content. I'm at home reading the first half of a book. I want to pick up a different device and continue playing where I left off. _(Author: Markus Gylling. Originally In-Scope Story 3.)_

== Ability to play before download is complete ==
As a user I want to be able to play part of the book before it has completed downloading. _(Author: Nick Williamson. Originally In-Scope Story 4.)_

== Review content before selection ==
As a user I want to be able to review content before I select it. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 5.)_

== Keep bookmarks ==
As a user I want to be able to keep my bookmarks for as long as I might use the book at another time. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 6.)_

== Tell server download failed ==
As a reading system I want to tell the server that the download failed. _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 7.)_

== Return book ==
As a content provider I want to know when a user has finished with the book (return book). _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 8.)_

== Maximum entries in a bookshelf ==
As a content provider I want to set a maximum number of entries in a bookshelf. _(Author: Markus Gylling. Originally In-Scope Story 9.)_

== Confirm user wants book ==
As a content provider I want to confirm with the user that they want the book. Content provider interacts with user to say that a pre-requisite book exists. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 10.)_

== Push system messages ==
As a content provider I want to push out system messages to the user. _(Author: Nick Williamson and George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 11.)_

== Determine player capabilities ==
As a content provider I want to be able to determine whether a player is capable of playing the book. _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 12.)_

== Know if player is online ==
As a content provider I have a pick list ready, I need to know if the player is online and ready to receive books. _(Author: Geoff Gilmour-Taylor. Originally In-Scope Story 13.)_

== Choose book from narrative ==
As a user I want to move quickly through narrative books and choose the book from there. _(Author: Neil Bernstein. Originally In-Scope Story 14.)_

== Access content from different organizations ==
As a user I want to access content from different libraries/organisations. _(Author: Nick Williamson. Originally In-Scope Story 15.)_

== Diagnose player status ==
As a distributor I want to diagnose the current status of the player (live/downloading/needs upgrading/resetting remotely/disabled). _(Author: Peter Osborne. Originally In-Scope Story 16.)_

== Centralized authentication ==
As a content provider I want a central authentication server with satellite servers to distribute content locally. _(Author: Markus Gylling. Originally In-Scope Story 17.)_

== Interact with a download ==
As a user I want to interrupt and interact with a download. _(Author: Sean Brooks. Originally In-Scope Story 18.)_

== Give feedback ==
As a user I want to give feedback of the quality of my material. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally In-Scope Story 19.)_

== No personal information ==
As a user I don't want any personal identifiable information transmitted. _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 20.)_

== Expiration date for content ==
As a content provider I want to provide an expiration date for content. _(Author: Clive Lansink. Originally In-Scope Story 21.)_

== Enough space to store content (server) ==
As a content provider I need to know how much space is on the player as I want to push content to it. _(Author: Sean Brooks and Gerry Chevalier. Originally In-Scope Story 22.)_

== Existing standards and toolkits ==
As a system developer I want the delivery system to use existing standards and toolkits. _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 23.)_

== Meaningful error messages ==
As a user I want meaningful error messages. _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 24.)_

== Unobtrusive service ==
As a service provider I want to deliver a user friendly, transparent and unobtrusive service. _(Author: Peter Osborne and Ed Chandler. Originally In-Scope Story 25.)_

== Level of support services ==
As a user I want to know the level of support services which goes on. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally In-Scope Story 26.)_

== Content provider discovery ==
As a potential user I need to find out what content providers are available to me. _(Author: Kathy Kahl. Originally In-Scope Story 27.)_

== Subscribe to services ==
As a user I want to be able to subscribe to services. _(Author: Leon Gulikers. Originally In-Scope Story 28.)_

== Select a book ==
As a non-computer user I want to be able to select a book. (Call library, request title/types of books/given automatically/mag+newspapers+books, tell library priority whats on my reading system, play book, return book to library) _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 29.)_

== Information as soon as it is ready ==
As a user I want the information as soon as it is ready. For example, record on demand for students.  The user requests something and gets a partial book, as soon part of it is recorded. _(Author: Dave Andrews. Originally In-Scope Story 30.)_

== Accept or reject items ==
As a user I want to accept or reject items on the list. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 31.)_

== Enough space to store content (client) ==
As a user I want to know if my player has enough space to store the content. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally In-Scope Story 32.)_

== Bookmark content ==
As a student I want to bookmark my content according to the syllabus. For example, if I'm a distant student with all my content in a pack online. I need to be able to take my course pack and bookmark it based on the syllabus. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally In-Scope Story 33.)_

== Ensure download ==
As a service provider I want to make sure my students are downloading their content. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally In-Scope Story 34.)_

== Recommend similar books ==
As a service provider I want to recommend books to users who have read similar books. _(Author: Neil Bernstein. Originally In-Scope Story 35.)_

== Preset bookmarks ==
As an educator I want to preset bookmarks in my text and deliver it to my students. _(Author: Peter Osborne. Originally In-Scope Story 36.)_

== Customize client UI from server ==
As a content provider I want to customise the UI to restrict or open up the functionality as required. _(Author: George Kerscher and Nick Williamson. Originally In-Scope Story 37.)_

== No sniffing ==
As a user I don't want the content provider to sniff my bookshelf off the network. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 38.)_

== Request failure notification ==
As a user I want to know if any of my requests failed and why. _(Author: Geoff Gilmour-Taylor. Originally In-Scope Story 39.)_

== Download progress ==
As a user I want to know what the progress is on the download of the books and how long it will take to complete. _(Author: Geoff Gilmour-Taylor. Originally In-Scope Story 40.)_

== Resume download ==
As a user I want to be able to resume my download if it was interrupted. _(Author: Gerry Chevalier. Originally In-Scope Story 41.)_

== Suspend content ==
As a content provider I want to suspend content _en masse_. _(Author: Peter Osborne and James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 42.)_

== Suppress system messages ==
As a user I need to be able to suppress system messages. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally In-Scope Story 43.)_

== Compulsory messages ==
As a content provider I need some messages to be compulsory. _(Author: Nick Williamson. Originally In-Scope Story 44.)_

== Stop player from functioning ==
As a content provider I must be able to stop a player from functioning for a user who has a bad account. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally In-Scope Story 45.)_

== Change player status ==
As a content provider I need to able to change the status of the player (e.g. bought or loaned machine). _(Author: Peter Osborne. Originally In-Scope Story 46.)_

== Re-download ==
As a user I want to be able to re-download my content if I need. _(Author: James Pritchett. Originally In-Scope Story 47.)_

== Control number of copies ==
As a service provider I want to control the number of copies of a book that are in circulation. _(Author: Lynn Leith. Originally In-Scope Story 48.)_

== Return to the same place ==
As a user I want to read concurrent material and return to the same place after reading different content. _(Author: Karel Raven. Originally In-Scope Story 49.)_

== Set a preference for when there isn't enough space ==
As a user I want to set a preference for when there isn't enough space to download the next book. _(Author: Nick Williamson. Originally In-Scope Story 50.)_

== Get paid ==
As a content provider I want to be able to get paid for the service I am providing. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 51.)_

== Error code knowledge base ==
As a systems administrator I want to be able to collect the error codes so I can generate a knowledge base. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally In-Scope Story 52.)_

== Error codes ==
As a developer I want error codes to explain what went wrong and where. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally In-Scope Story 53.)_

== Check firmware version ==
As a user I want to be able to check the firmware version and upgrade as required. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 54.)_

== Push player upgrades ==
As a content provider I want to automatically push upgrades to players. _(Author: Clive Lansink. Originally In-Scope Story 55.)_

== Authorization of content (system) ==
As a system I need to know that player "X" is authorised to play book "Y". _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 56.)_

== Time service ==
As a content provider I want users to be able to download books but not read them until I lift the embargo including players which do not have an inbuilt real time clock. _(Author: Geoff Gilmour-Taylor. Originally In-Scope Story 57.)_

== Embedded authorization and rights ==
As a content provider I want the content to have authorisation and rights embedded in the file. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally In-Scope Story 58.)_

== Key delivery ==
As a content provider I want to be able to deliver authorisation keys to players. _(Author: George Kerscher and Peter Osborne. Originally In-Scope Story 59.)_

== Switch primary content provider ==
As a user I want to be able to identify and switch my primary content/service provider. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally In-Scope Story 60.)_

== Player settings ==
As a service provider I would like to know the colour contrast, the voice speed, volume that the online playpack should display to a particular user. _(Author: N/A. Originally In-Scope Story 61.)_

== Provide content ==
As a content provider I want to provide content to my users. _(Author: N/A. Originally In-Scope Story 62.)_

----

= Out-of-Scope Stories =

== Prioritize list ==
As a user I want to be able to prioritise my list. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 2.)_

== Save forever ==
As a user I want to be able to save my content to another location and save it forever. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 3.)_

== Do not save forever ==
As a content provider I want to stop users from taking content and saving it forever. _(Author: Nick Williamson. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 4.)_

== Best version ==
As a user I want to download the best version of the book for my needs and my player. _(Author: Kathy Kahl. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 5.)_

== Share everywhere ==
As a content provider I want to be able to make any content which is not restricted by copyright available to anybody registered with a sister organisation anywhere in the world. _(Author: Lynn Leith. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 6.)_

== Prioritize content ==
As a content provider I want to prioritise content to my members over others from different parts of the world. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 7.)_

== Share with friends ==
As a member I want to share my books with my friends (e.g. peer to peer sharing and including bookmarks). _(Author: Matthias Karlsson. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 8.)_

== Delegate user administration ==
As a content provider I want to delegate the task of user administration to local libraries/administrators. _(Author: Markus Gylling. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 9.)_

== Add and remove users ==
As an administrator I want to be able to add and remove users. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 10.)_

== Keep parts available ==
As a user I want to keep parts of books available to me. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 11.)_

== Upload content and metadata ==
As a user I want to be able to upload DAISY content and catalogue it. _(Author: Matthias Karlsson. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 12.)_

== Search ==
As a user I want to be able to search using a variety of criteria and have those books put in a picklist. _(Author: Dave Andrews. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 13.)_

== Download stats ==
As a DAISY board member I want stats on books downloaded. _(Author: Kathy Kahl. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 14.)_

== Read stats ==
As a content provider I want stats on books being read. _(Author: Peter Osborne. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 15.)_

== Partial read stats ==
As a content provider I want to know how much of the book was read. _(Author: Clive Lansink. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 16.)_

== No partial read stats ==
As a user I don't want to inform the content provider how much of the book I read. _(Author: Clive Lansink. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 17.)_

== Choose when system messages are played ==
As a user I need to be able to choose when system messages are played. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 18.)_

== Keep personal reading history ==
As a user I want to keep a history of all the books I have read. _(Author: George Kerscher. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 19.)_

== Push periodicals ==
As a content provider I want to be able to provide subscription services (such as magazines) where new issues are pushed to users. _(Author: Neil Bernstein. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 20.)_

== Next in line ==
As a service provider I want to know which person is next in line to receive a book. _(Author: Ed Chandler. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 21.)_

== Space usage on local storage ==
As a user I need to know how much space each book is taking. _(Author: Nick Williamson. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 22.)_

== Status of local device ==
As a user I need to know the status of the player and connection. _(Author: Gerry Chevalier. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 23.)_

== TTS Royalties ==
As a developer I want the royalties of (embedded) voices properly accounted for. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 24.)_

== Integration with existing systems ==
As a content provider I want to integrate the delivery system with current infrastructure. _(Author: Ron Stewart. Originally Out-of-Scope Story 25.)_

----

<wiki:toc />