#summary The original requirements for the DAISY Online Protocol, as of 2008-FEB-11 to 2009-JUN-21.
#labels Deprecated,Phase-Requirements

<wiki:toc max_depth="2" />

----

= In-scope =

== Content Management ==

=== Efficient use of bandwidth ===
Protocol to support efficient use of bandwidth. _(Original requirement 2 (1). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Authorization_of_content_(server) Authorization of content (server)])_

=== Key authorization ===
Protocol to support efficient key authorisation checking. _(Original requirement 2 (2). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Authorization_of_content_(server) Authorization of content (server)])_

=== Errors must be communicated to server ===
Transmission/download errors must be tracked and communicated to the server. Protocol must deliver error codes to the system. _(Original requirements 7 and 52. User Stories: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Tell_server_download_failed Tell server download failed] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Error_code_knowledge_base Error code knowledge base])_

=== Return book ===
System is notified that the book has been returned (deleted from the players). _(Original requirement 8. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Return_book Return book])_

=== Report number of books ===
Players must notify how may books the user has on them. _(Original requirement 9. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Maximum_entries_in_a_bookshelf Maximum entries in a bookshelf])_

=== Transmit capabilities ===
The protocol must be able to support the transmission of the class and capabilities (storage) of the player. _(Original requirement 12. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Determine_player_capabilities Determine player capabilities])_

=== Ping servers ===
The players must periodically ping the servers and report its status. _(Original requirement 13. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Know_if_player_is_online Know if player is online])_

=== Universal protocol ===
The protocol must be the same between organisations. _(Original requirement 15 (1). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Access_content_from_different_organizations Access content from different organizations])_

=== Player stores contact information ===
Player must store contact information for each service/organisation. _(Original requirement 15 (2). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Access_content_from_different_organizations Access content from different organizations])_

=== Content at different location ===
The protocol must support content being at different location to the user information. _(Original requirement 17 (1). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Centralized_authentication Centralized authentication])_

=== Suggest mirrors ===
Protocol must support the server suggesting mirror sites to download the content from. _(Original requirement 17 (2). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Centralized_authentication Centralized authentication])_

=== Trace routing ===
Trace routing must be supported. _(Original requirement 17 (3). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Centralized_authentication Centralized authentication])_

=== Time interrogation ===
Protocol must allow the interrogation of time by the player. _(Original requirement 21. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Expiration_date_for_content Expiration date for content])_

=== Transmit storage space ===
The protocol must support the transmission of the storage available on the player from the player to the server. _(Original requirement 22. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Enough_space_to_store_content_(server) Enough space to store content (server)])_

=== Initial transaction ===
Initial transaction between when a player is first turned on and the server. _(Original requirement 27. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Content_provider_discovery Content provider discovery])_

=== Download and streaming ===
The protocol must support both downloading and streaming. _(Original requirement 62. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Provide_content Provide content])_

----

== User Control ==

=== Same book, different player ===
A single user may download the same book but to a different player. _(Original requirement 3 (1). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Different_devices,_same_content Different devices, same content])_

=== Bookmark stored on server ===
The reading history (bookmark) of each book is stored on the server as well as the client. _(Original requirement 3 (2). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Different_devices,_same_content Different devices, same content])_

=== Transmit confirmation message ===
The protocol must transmit a confirmation message from the player. _(Original requirement 10. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Confirm_user_wants_book Confirm user wants book])_

=== Audio and text annotation ===
Transmission of lists supports audio and text annotation. _(Original requirement 14. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Choose_book_from_narrative Choose book from narrative])_

=== Stop and resume download ===
The protocol must support stop/resume of the download. _(Original requirement 18. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Interact_with_a_download Interact with a download])_

=== Requires some player functionality ===
Requires some player functionality as well. _(Original requirement 19. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Give_feedback Give feedback])_

=== Identify and transfer service provider ===
The protocol must support identification and transference of the primary service provider. _(Original requirement 60. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Switch_primary_content_provider Switch primary content provider])_

=== User preferences stored on server ===
The user preferences are stored on the server so that remote access from different terminals can automatically be adjusted. _(Original requirement 61. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Player_settings Player settings])_

----

== Preview ==

=== Prioritize order of files ===
Protocol needs to prioritise order of files for each content so it can be played. _(Original requirement 4. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Ability_to_play_before_download_is_complete Ability to play before download is complete])_

=== Interact with content ===
The protocol supports interaction with the content. _(Original requirement 5. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Review_content_before_selection Review content before selection])_

----

== Information Management ==

=== Transmit bookmarks ===
Protocol must allow the transmission of bookmarks as a separate entity to the book. Protocol should recognise bookmarks as non book content and a player can transmit bookmarks back to the server and vice versa. Protocol must allow the transmission of bookmarks as a separate entity to the book (within DAISY ISO 2005 standard there is no attribute that identifies a bookmark as private/shared). _(Original requirements 6, 33 and 36. User Stories: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Keep_bookmarks Keep bookmarks], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Bookmark_content Bookmark content] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Preset_bookmarks Preset bookmarks])_

=== Variety of system messages ===
Protocol must allow to transmit a variety of system messages. _(Original requirement 11. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Push_system_messages Push system messages])_

=== Report player's status ===
Protocol must report players status. _(Original requirement 16 (1). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Diagnose_player_status Diagnose player status])_

=== Report firmware version ===
Protocol has to report firmware version of the player. _(Original requirement 16 (2). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Diagnose_player_status Diagnose player status])_

=== Report download activity ===
Protocol has to report download activity. _(Original requirement 16 (3). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Diagnose_player_status Diagnose player status])_

=== Report player errors ===
Protocol must report player system errors. _(Original requirement 16 (4). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Diagnose_player_status Diagnose player status])_

=== Report which server is in control ===
Protocol must report which server is in control. _(Original requirement 16 (5). User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Diagnose_player_status Diagnose player status])_

=== Protect user privacy ===
The protocol must ensure protection of a users privacy. _(Original requirement 20. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#No_personal_information No personal information])_

=== Localized, plain language error messages ===
Error messages must be easily modified to provide meaningful information in plain language of the user. _(Original requirement 24. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Meaningful_error_messages Meaningful error messages])_

----

== Organization Control ==

=== Without user interaction ===
The protocol supports the background communication without user interaction as much as possible. _(Original requirement 25. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Unobtrusive_service Unobtrusive service])_

=== Expose transactions ===
The protocol must be able to expose, to the player, the transactions. _(Original requirement 26. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Level_of_support_services Level of support services])_

=== New service registration ===
The protocol has to support the registration with a new service provider. _(Original requirement 28. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Subscribe_to_services Subscribe to services])_

----

== Development ==

=== Not Invented Here ===
Work group to review and use existing standards and tool wherever possible. _(Original requirement 23. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Existing_standards_and_toolkits Existing standards and toolkits])_

----

= Duplicates =

These requirements were marked "satisfied by requirement", indicating that they were considered to be redundant, based on the existing in-scope requirements above.

== Content Management ==

=== Select a book ===
Transmitting a list of options and a response or selection and then system delivers the content. _(Original requirements 29 and 31. User Stories: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Select_a_book Select a book] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Accept_or_reject_items Accept or reject items])_

=== Be aware of size ===
Protocol needs to be aware of the size of the item in question. _(Original requirement 32. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Enough_space_to_store_content_(client) Enough space to store content (client)])_

=== Report download status ===
Protocol must report the download status. _(Original requirement 34. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Ensure_download Ensure download])_

=== Send lists ===
Protocol supports the sending of lists. _(Original requirement 35. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Recommend_similar_books Recommend similar books])_

=== Need file size ===
Need to have size of file. _(Original requirement 40. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Download_progress Download progress])_

=== Resumability ===
Protocol must be resumable. _(Original requirement 41. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Resume_download Resume download])_

=== Support outage messages ===
Protocol must support messages prior to service outage. _(Original requirement 42. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Suspend_content Suspend content])_

=== Send list of options ===
Transmitting a list of options and a response or selection and then system delivers the content. _(Original requirement 47. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Re-download Re-download])_

=== Time out and return and authorization of content ===
Timing out of books/returning of books/is this book allowed to go to the player. _(Original requirement 48. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Control_number_of_copies Control number of copies])_

=== Streaming is full DAISY experience and controlled download ===
The streaming is a full DAISY experience + the download could be controlled by the player. _(Original requirement 49. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Return_to_the_same_place Return to the same place])_

=== Management of lists ===
Management of lists and versions/revs. _(Original requirement 50. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Set_a_preference_for_when_there_isn't_enough_space Set a preference for when there isn't enough space])_

=== PDTB2 and partial transmission ===
Protocol has to support secure transmission such as encryption (PDTB) + sending parts of the book then sending an update. _(Original requirements 56, 58 and 59. User Stories: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Authorization_of_content_(system) Authorization of content (system)], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Embedded_authorization_and_rights Embedded authorization and rights] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Key_delivery Key delivery])_

=== Download of book without access rights ===
Download of book without access rights until the release date of the book even for players without a real time clock. _(Original requirement 57. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Time_service Time service])_

----

== Preview ==

=== Partial transmission ===
The protocol must support, understand and communicate around partial, incremental and revised download. _(Original requirement 30. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Information_as_soon_as_it_is_ready Information as soon as it is ready])_

----

== Information Management ==

=== Secure transmission ===
Transmission must be secure. _(Original requirement 38. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#No_sniffing No sniffing])_

=== Meaningful messages ===
Meaningful messages. _(Original requirements 39, 53 and 54. User Stories: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Request_failure_notification Request failure notification], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Error_codes Error codes] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Check_firmware_version Check firmware version])_

=== Different classes of messages ===
Protocol will support different classes of messages. _(Original requirements 43, 44 and 55. User Stories: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Suppress_system_messages Suppress system messages], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Compulsory_messages Compulsory messages] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Push_player_upgrades Push player upgrades])_

----

== Organization Control ==

=== User preferences separate ===
Protocol must allow the transmission of user preference as a separate entity to the book. _(Original requirement 37. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Customize_client_UI_from_server Customize client UI from server])_

=== System messages and unique device ID ===
System messages + unique id of device. _(Original requirements 45 and 46. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Stop_player_from_functioning Stop player from functioning] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Change_player_status Change player status])_

=== System messages ===
System messages. _(Original requirement 51. User Story: [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalUserStories#Get_paid Get paid])_

----

<wiki:toc />