#summary A list of changes to the requirements by the TSG.
#labels Phase-Requirements

<wiki:toc />

= Structural changes and copyediting =

Rather than a single spreadsheet, the requirements and user stories were separated into two documents, RequirementsDocument and UserStories.  Each user story and requirement was given a short name, so they can be referenced by something other than number.  Requirements were organized by the categories given in the original document.  Spelling and grammar were fixed where possible, and some wording was changed for clarity and uniformity of language.

The OriginalRequirements document contains the original requirements, sorted by category and with spelling corrected.

= New requirements added =

New requirements were not given numbers.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Key_delivery Key delivery] was added to support PDTB2 key exchange.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Dynamic_menus Dynamic menus] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Noninteractive_session Noninteractive session] were added to support a basic service profile which is only concerned with content transfer, not selection.

= Old in-scope requirements taken out of scope =

These requirements were considered to be out-of-scope for this project.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Report_number_of_books Requirement 9; Report number of books] was considered unnecessary for a client-server model.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Variety_of_system_messages Requirement 11; Variety of system messages] was unclear.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Ping_servers Requirement 13; Ping servers] was considered unnecessary for a client-server model.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Report_player%27s_status Requirement 16 (1); Report player's status] was considered unnecessary for a client-server model.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Suggest_mirrors Requirement 17 (2); Suggest mirrors] was considered too ambitious for the first version.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Trace_routing Requirement 17 (3); Trace routing] was considered too ambitious for the first version.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Requires_some_player_functionality Requirement 19; Requires some player functionality], the requirement for user feedback, was considered too ambitious for the first version.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Transmit_storage_space Requirement 22; Transmit storage space] was considered unnecessary for a client-server model.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Not_Invented_Here Requirement 23; Not Invented Here] was considered to be an implementation detail.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Without_user_interaction Requirement 25; Without user interaction] was unclear, but covered the same ground as [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Noninteractive_session Noninteractive session].
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Expose_transactions Requirement 26; Expose transactions] was unclear.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Initial_transaction Requirement 27; Initial transaction], the requirement for server discoverability, was considered too ambitious for the first version.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#New_service_registration Requirement 28; New service registration] was considered too ambitious for the first version.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Identify_and_transfer_service_provider Requirement 60; Identify and transfer service provider] was considered to be a reading system function.
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#User_preferences_stored_on_server Requirement 61; User preferences stored on server] was considered too ambitious for the first version.

= Existing requirements edited =

 * Report player errors (Requirement 7): [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Report_player_errors Original], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Report_player_errors revision].
 * Return book (Requirement 8): [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Return_book Original], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Return_book revision].
 * Issue content (Requirement 10): [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Transmit_confirmation_message Original], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Issue_content revision].

= Duplicates removed =

These requirements were marked as being "satisfied by (another) requirement" in the original document. They have been removed from the new document.

 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Select_a_book Requirements 29 and 31; Select a book]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Partial_transmission Requirement 30; Partial transmission]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Be_aware_of_size Requirement 32; Be aware of size]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Report_download_status Requirement 34; Report download status]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Send_lists Requirement 35; Send lists]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#User_preferences_separate Requirement 37; User preferences separate]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Secure_transmission Requirement 38; Secure transmission]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Meaningful_messages Requirements 39, 53 and 54; Meaningful messages]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Need_file_size Requirement 40; Need file size]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Resumability Requirement 41; Resumability]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Support_outage_messages Requirement 42; Support outage messages]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Different_classes_of_messages Requirements 43, 44 and 55; Different classes of messages]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#System_messages_and_unique_device_ID Requirements 45 and 46; System messages and unique device ID]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Send_list_of_options Requirement 47; Send list of options]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Time_out_and_return_and_authorization_of_content Requirement 48; Time out and return and authorization of content]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Streaming_is_full_DAISY_experience_and_controlled_download Requirement 49; Streaming is full DAISY experience and controlled download]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Management_of_lists Requirement 50; Management of lists]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#System_messages Requirement 51; System messages]
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#PDTB2_and_partial_transmission Requirements 56, 58 and 59; PDTB2 and partial transmission] (Note: a new requirement has been written for [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument?ts=1247584430&updated=RequirementsDocument#Key_delivery PDTB2 support].)
 * [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/OriginalRequirements#Download_of_book_without_access_rights Requirement 57; Download of book without access rights]