Present: George, Kenny, Markus, Jelle, Geoff, Simon, Nick

Regrets: Matt

== Action Item Summary ==

=== New Action Items ===
 * Kenny create sample WSDL using WDL style, send to group for testing. 
 * Markus get rid of RPC arrays in XSD. 
 * Geoff check whether PDTB2 allows rights expression without requiring encryption.
 * Nick propose closing issue 97 to list with associated argumentation
 * Markus add label inside metadata, change to dublin core.
 * Markus add contentID param to setBookmarks
 * Markus get rid of href in favor if "uri".


=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===

 * Kenny to check whether WSI Basic Profile supports MTOM.
 * Geoff to modify the scenarios.
 * Geoff to post issue 94 to the list.
  * Markus check with george/board on whether service provider discovery req remains for this version
 * Matt: overall edit/review/proofing  
 * Geoff: terminology section (geoff has started work on the terminology section)
 * Markus/Kenny: sequence snippets: initial spec inclusion (usage scenarios for the dynamic menus are done with the exception of the Back Usage Scenario. these scenarios can be found in the scn-temp folder in the src folder on the svn in a file called kenny-dynamic-menus.txt) 
 * ALL: Further src authoring, new snippets (eg Installments)
 * Matt: Further work on the XSD XSLT (matt has almost finished work on the xsd xslt; only the final touches are left)
 * Markus/Kenny: XSD and WSDL inline doc  
 * markus/kenny: Add "expired," "borrowed" and "default" as the three possible parameter values to the getContentList function in the documentation.        
 * Markus/kenny: Define the logOn function in the wsdl to return a boolean. a separate function called getServiceAttributes needs to be kept in the wsdl to return the attributes of a service.   
 * markus/kenny: Add a required lastModifiedDate attribute (or element) to each contentItem element in the contentList type (the lastModifiedDate of a contentItem element is the last modified date of the most recently modified resource in the publication being represented by the particular contentItem element). A required lastModifiedDate attribute also needs to be added to the resource element in the contentmetadata type. 
 * markus/kenny: add a pointer to HTTP return codes specified in Section 10 in RFC 2615 in the documentation for situations where a uri to a resource is not valid for some reason. (refers to issue 106)   
 * Nick prepare sample instances of the Daisy Online types. (nick has begun work on this)
 * Peter/Markus/Kenny: Board Recommendations paper.

==Agenda/Minutes==

=== Timelines going forward ===
|| start final Edit/Proofing (Matt) || August 28? ||
|| delivered to board || *September 10* ||


=== This weeks issues ===

==== Issue 93 ====  
Suggesting that we procrastinate until all other issues are resolved.

==== Issue 97 ====  
Geoff: Doesnt seem that serialNumber plays an actual part in the key exchange.
Nick: Only requirement is that there is an instance key of some kind.
@Nick propose closing issue 97 to list with associated argumentation

==== Issue 100 ====
Decision to use DC terms where applicable.

==== Issue 101 ====
Decision to use labels inside metadata. Markus to implement.

==== Issue 105 ====  
Geoff check whether PDTB2 allows rights expression without requiring encryption.

==== Issue 107 ====  
Decision to add a second parameter to setBookmarks which is String:contentID

==== Issue 108 ====
Decision to get rid href name in favor of "uri". 

==== Issue 109 ====      
Kenny: The different styles apply to the soap body element. Microsoft only supports "wrapped document literal". Kenny commented that without the document literal you dont have the operation name. 

Markus: do we have to mandate one of these styles or can we leave it open? Kenny: we would need multiple WSDLs, and would likely run into interop problems. Kenny suggests that we mandate the use of one style.

Note: WDL is part of WS-I basic. 

Kenny: if we go for WDL, the messages in the WSDL will need to change. 
