Present: 

Regrets: kenny 

== Action Item Summary ==
=== New Action Items ===
  * Markus check with george/board on whether service provider discovery req remains for this version
  * Geoff send remaining req issues one by one to list for discussion prior to next weeks telcon (done)
=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
  * Kenny add (or append to) issue to tracker re dropping storage-specific info from readingSystemAttributes
  * kenny check with Hiro whether he still needs announcement/getUserChoices range requests, 
  * kenny collect all impacts of dropping MTOM and post to list
  * Geoff and Kenny to reorganize the requirements. ONGOING
  * Nick to go through the wiki and add comments based on the historical discussions of the group. ONGOING
  * Markus put all classic TSG req docs on SVN ONGOING
  * Markus, Kenny draft one or several hypotheses on spec documents reorganization ONGOING

==Agenda/Minutes==

=== F2F Agenda and Deliverables === 

See [TorontoF2F2009]

=== This weeks issues ===

==== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=16 Issue 16] ====
*Resolution; Mark as resolved, satisfied by requirement.*

==== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=17 Issue 17] ====
Geoff added [daisy-online-delivery/wiki/RequirementsDocument#Key_delivery]

Note: need to confirm the above during requirements repub announcement

Nick: would like this part of the API not be bound to PDTB2, but more general. 

Jelle: do we specifically need a function call for this? 

Nick: if the object are binary then it could be used in the general content transfer API. 

Geoff: they are XML documents. Rationale for a separate function is that so you can request them by name instead of filename. "Heres the content key I need, and here are the private keys that I have. Please package this up in a key exchange object and send it to me."

*Resolution: Leave open, wait for confirmation from James et al.*

==== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=18 Issue 18] ====
Geoff: I argue that this is not a protocol function, but a reading system function.

Nick: currently, the protocol says presumes that you have the URL to the services provider.

Jelle: this is a client issue; shouldnt be described in the specification.

George: Agree that its out of scope for the specification. Players have to be designed to allow for connections to a variety of service providers. 

*Resolution: Resolved as out of scope. *

==== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=19 Issue 19] ====
Geoff is suggesting removal. 

Nick: its not automatic, intended to be done only where user explicitly requests the download of settings. 

Markus: what about preferred language? Nick: in ReadingSystemAttributes. 

*Resolution: Resolved as out of scope for this version. Public given opportunity to protest during review. *

==== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=90 Issue 90] ====
Nick: For a non-interactive download, you could just call the getContentList
Geoff: think there needs to be a service negotiation step. The server requests what level of service it wants, and the server replies whether it can support that.

Nick: theres only 20 functions: why not just have one interface and use NotSupportedFault from the Service side, and at the reader side the function will just not be called. 

=== Requirements Reformulation: finalization ===
 * Communications to wider group
 * Change Log