<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

Present: Markus (scribe), Geoff, Matt, Jelle, Dominic, Hiro, Nick, Kenny
 
Regrets: 

== Action Item Summary ==
 * Geoff: lift over underlying protocol topics from to 5.3.3 to 4.3
 * Jelle: and Nick read 4.3 and send thoughts/proposals to Kenny
 * Kenny: modify 4.3, then notify Markus
 * Geoff: work further on 5.3.3 and 5.3.4, then notify Markus
 * Markus: minor mods as below
 
=== New Action Items ===
 * Kenny: write prose for *4.4 Dynamic Menus* (informative intro with samples) {DONE}
 * Kenny: find all WSDL remark elements pertaining to dynamic menus and add prose etc {DONE}
 * Kenny: add a pointer to HTTP return codes specified in Section 10 in RFC 2615 in the documentation for situations where a uri to a resource is not valid for some reason. {DONE, but not integrated in spec yet} (then close issue 106). 
 * Jelle: write prose for *5.1.1 http(s) authentication* {DONE, merged with "underlying protocols}
 * Geoff: write prose for *5.3.3. Downloading and streaming of content* {ONGOING}
 * Geoff: write prose on how installments work in section 5, then close Issue 102. {ONGOING}
 * Nick: write prose for *5.6. Bookmarks and Last Reading Position, inc samples* {DONE}
 * Nick, in writing the prose and producing a bookmark sample, solve Issue 34 and Issue 119 {ONGOING}
 * Markus: implement all issue resolutions below except that for Issue 106.{DONE}

=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
 * Jelle: propose resolution to Issue 118
 * Geoff and Markus analyze RequirementsDocument vs current API. {ONGOING}

== Agenda/Minutes ==
=== Unfinished Sections ===
The following sections/items are known to be unfinished:
 * The Introduction
 * 4.3 Underlying protocols (Jelles submission for 5.1.1 "https and authentication" was merged in here. Note that 5.3.3 touches on the same topics, so there is some overlap
 * _Geoff - TODAY_ 5.3.3. Downloading and streaming of content (some more work needed
 * _Geoff - TODAY_ at least a stub of 5.3.4. Publishing content in installments (Geoff) - will add only a brief overview
 * _Markus, add_: No prose/example on how to retrieve samples (do we require issueContent on samples?) *Resolution*: must not do issueContent on samples
 * _Markus, add_: Not yet specified that WAV must be supported by services form for userResponse/audiodata
 * Geoff: lift over 5.3.3 prose to underlying protocols before Kenny wakes up
 * _Markus:_ Edits remain in Appendix B.
 * _Markus:_ make sure all unfinished sections marked as such
 * A few issues marked as defects

==== Which of the above to address before sending the draft out ====

==== Which of the above to mark in draft as unfinished ====

=== Work Mode during editing phase ===
Matt owns document, minimize merge hell by avoiding that others commit to the main docs. Instead Submit change proposals as issues or on list.

==== Concurrent work ====
 * Who wants to take a stab at the CSS? {@Matt} 
 * Pick up the requirements fulfilment analysis thread that Geoff started