<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

Present: George, Markus, Kenny, Geoff, Simon, Jelle, Markus (scribe), Nick

Regrets: Hiro



== Action Item Summary ==

=== New Action Items ===
 * Markus push WDL version of WSDL to SVN, then notify group. Make sure that all recent WSDL edits are pushed to the new version.
 * Geoff: Talk to Hiro about getContentList: two or three IDs (see notes below)
 * Markus: implement changes are per Issue 114 discussion below
 * Kenny modify dynamic menu usage scenarios to reflect Issue 114 changes.
 * Markus: 115 to "keyRing"
 * Markus: make returnContent optional
 * Jelle: propose resolution to Issue 118


=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
 * Kenny inform daisy-online group headsup, review starting 28th {DONE} 
 * Geoff and Markus analyze RequirementsDocument vs current API. {ONGOING}
 * Kenny check whether .NET supports RPC-Literal. {done. WCF does support RPC-Literal. Wrapped Document Literal is the default in wcf. Older versions of .net do not support RPC-Literal.}    
 * Markus look for RPC-Literal support in other platforms.
 * Geoff add documentation to @borrowed. 
 * Geoff to summarize the getContentList(borrowed/default) discussion and sent to list. See Nick's suggestion below {DONE} 
 * Markus replace contentMetadata/contentStandard with contentMetadata/metadata/dc:format. {DONE}
 * Markus close Issue 97 {DONE}
 * Geoff to add rights expression language example to PDTB section, then close Issue 105
 * Geoff label Issue 94 as an enhancement, leave open but leave out of spec
 * Kenny close Issue 112 {DONE}
 * Markus: implement change as in Issue 115, then close {DONE}
 * Markus make finite enumeration of getContentList(id), once we know whether to keep "borrowed"
 * Kenny create sample WSDL using WDL style, send to group for testing. {DONE} 
 * Markus get rid of RPC arrays in XSD. {DONE}
 * Geoff check whether PDTB2 allows rights expression without requiring encryption. {DONE. PDTB2 does allow Rights Expression language without encryption.}
 * Nick propose closing issue 97 to list with associated argumentation {DONE} 
 * Markus add label inside metadata
 * Markus change metadata to dublin core {DONE}
 * Markus add contentID param to setBookmarks {DONE}
 * Markus get rid of href in favor if "uri". {DONE}
 * Kenny to check whether WSI Basic Profile supports MTOM. {DONE. ws-i basic profile 1.1 does not support mtom; ws-i basic profile 1.2 does.} 
 * Geoff to modify the scenarios.
 * Geoff to post issue 94 to the list. {DONE}
 * Markus check with george/board on whether service provider discovery req remains for this version {DONE}
 * Matt: overall edit/review/proofing  
 * Geoff: terminology section {geoff has started work on the terminology section}
 * Markus/Kenny: sequence snippets: initial spec inclusion {usage scenarios for the dynamic menus are done. these scenarios can be found in the scn-temp folder in the src folder on the svn in a file called "Dynamic Menu Usage Scenarios.txt"} 
 * ALL: Further src authoring, new snippets (eg Installments)
 * Matt: Further work on the XSD XSLT {matt has almost finished work on the xsd xslt; only the final touches are left}
 * Markus/Kenny: XSD and WSDL inline doc  
 * markus/kenny: Add "expired," "borrowed" and "default" as the three possible parameter values to the getContentList function in the documentation. {ON AGENDA}       
 * Markus/kenny: Define the logOn function in the wsdl to return a boolean. a separate function called getServiceAttributes needs to be kept in the wsdl to return the attributes of a service. {DONE}  
 * markus/kenny: Add a required lastModifiedDate attribute (or element) to each contentItem element in the contentList type (the lastModifiedDate of a contentItem element is the last modified date of the most recently modified resource in the publication being represented by the particular contentItem element). A required lastModifiedDate attribute also needs to be added to the resource element in the contentmetadata type. 
 * markus/kenny: add a pointer to HTTP return codes specified in Section 10 in RFC 2615 in the documentation for situations where a uri to a resource is not valid for some reason. (refers to issue 106)   
 * Nick prepare sample instances of the Daisy Online types. {DONE}
 * Peter/Markus/Kenny: Board Recommendations paper.

==Agenda/Minutes==

=== Wrapped Document Literal Style ===

 * Wrapped Document Literal Style support in various platforms?
 * WSDL results?  
 * Decision: RPC-Literal or Wrapped Document Literal?   

 * *Suggestion: Go for Wrapped Document Literal in the Draft release*

Group decides to go for WDL

@Markus will push new version to SVN, then notify group. Make sure that all recent WSDL edits are pushed to the new version.


=== This weeks issues ===

==== getContentList(default/borrowed/expired) ====
 * is "borrowed" still required?

Geoff:

 After discussion on the telecon this morning, I think there is need for 
 only two defined  content lists: "expired" and "available".  "available" 
 would contain a list of all the content available to the user, whether 
 borrowed, purchased, or given without charge (such as the latest edition 
 of a free periodical subscription).  "expired" would contain a list of 
 the content on loan from the service that the service providers wish 
 to take away from the user.

 I think this may clear up some of the confusion between the "default" 
 and "borrowed" lists.  I don't think we need an explicit "borrowed" 
 list, since the contentMetadata for each item has a "borrowed" attribute 
 to say whether the material is on loan or not.  At that point, it's a 
 reading system function to keep track of it being borrowed.  Hiro, or 
 anyone else, please let us know if there's another reason to have a 
 "borrowed" content list.

Kenny:

 I am not as yet able to fathom the implications of a getContentList("available"). 
 does this mean that in our scenario, as described above, we would need to return 
 all back-issues of all newspapers and magazines, that the user has subscribed to, 
 and that the user has downloaded since her subscription?

*Suggestion: three exclusive lists*
 * "expired" is clear: a list of issued content that must be returned/deleted
 * "issued" is a list of all content that has been issued, whether it has been downloaded or not, and whether or not the content is borrowed, free, or bought 
 * "new" is a list of content that has not yet been issued that the user may choose to have issued

 * The spec should note that service providers may remove items from the "issued" list 
  * when content gets outdated or otherwise becomes irrelevant 
  * based on an [undefined] measure of the content having been accessed.

Note: Maybe contentMetadata/@borrowed needs a name change

Geoff: note that these would only be used in automatic transfer model: here having issued and new as separate IDs isnt necessary.

==== Issue 113 ====
*Suggestion: See below (issue 114)*

==== Issue 114 ====

*Suggestion:* 
 * require issueContent to have been called before getContentMetadata (regardless of borrowed, bought or free)
 * move the sample element to the contentList type
 * (note: sample can have multiple labels, label/audio has rangeBegin, rangeEnd and size attributes)
 * make clear that Services must allow one, but may several calls to getContentMetadata after issuance over several sessions
 
Kenny: should we change the content model of sample to "resources" (eg allow the sample to be a DTB). *Decision to change sample content type.* Geoff: we could use a format attribute on resources.

Geoff:
One core problem is that metadata+sample and resources are in the same type

Kenny: 
How about splitting up like this:
 * getContentList
 * {optionally call} getContentMetadata (gives metadata and sample(s))
 * issueContent returns boolean
 * getContentResources returns resources

Simon: suggest that samples are provided as an id, instead of resources inline

@markus do changes as above
@Kenny modify dynamic menu usage scenarios to reflect the above.

==== Issue 115 ====
Already an action item on @Markus. New name is "keyRing".

==== Issue 116 ====
@markus make returnContent optional

==== Issue 117 ====
Geoff: suggesting that rather than using the URL scheme (we are using userInfo in a nonstandard way), have an explicit attribute (user:colon scheme).

Jelle: I dont see the problem. 

Nick: I dont mind either way.

Geoff: I think I misread the http spec. @Geoff: Mark this issue as invalid.

==== Issue 118 ====
Need to be clear that http session and protocol session are not the same thing. The question is: do you set the cookie immediately or after logOn?

Geoff: suggest that we make http session and protocol session the same thing.

@Jelle propose where we should be going with 118.