#summary TSG telcon 20090707

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

Present: Simon, Geoff, Markus, Nick, Dominic, Jelle, Kenny

Regrets: 

== Action Item Summary ==
=== New Action Items ===
  * Markus check with george/board on whether service provider discovery req remains for this version
  * Geoff send remaining req issues one by one to list for discussion prior to next weeks telcon
=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
  * Kenny add (or append to) issue to tracker re dropping storage-specific info from readingSystemAttributes
  * kenny check with Hiro whether he still needs announcement/getUserChoices range requests, 
  * kenny collect all impacts of dropping MTOM and post to list
  * ALL review 5-15 except 11, use of the comments function on the issue tracker.
  * (and issue tracker items for Geoff, sprinkled below)
  * Geoff Add new user story for #25, based on profile subscription use case. DONE, linked from issue;
  * Geoff and Kenny to reorganize the requirements. ONGOING
  * Nick to go through the wiki and add comments based on the historical discussions of the group. ONGOING
  * Markus put all classic TSG req docs on SVN ONGOING
  * Markus, Kenny draft one or several hypotheses on spec documents reorganization ONGOING

==Agenda/Minutes==

=== F2F - any questions? ==
Roehampton is the prefferred hotel.

The priority today is issue 6. See section below for Geoff's suggestion on handling 5-15 excluding 6.

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=6 Issue 6] ===
Geoff: req is that protocol must support transmission of class and capabilities of the player. _Question: is there anything that the server must know about the reading system in order for the protocol to work?_

Nick: Single entry menu, there is no way for the client to request single entry menu.

Geoff: Good point. But I am still suggesting that in a client-server model, the client should be in control.

Nick: imagine I can get a booklist; the server would not put things in a booklist that it knows the client cant handle.

Geoff: is there anybody making a DO player that doesnt support DAISY3? What if you have a client that isnt a reading system?

Nick: Our entire library is still 2.02. A downloading client could just "lie".

Geoff: impact of non-reading clients is that ReadingSystemAttributes doesnt necessarily represent the end user agent.

Nick: allows the service to not present content that the reading cant handle.

Markus: posting supported content via ReadingSystemAttributes is also in support of dynamic content generation at the server side.

Geoff: if we can take ReadingSystemAttributes out entirely, thats a good thing for the simplicity for the API. But - this may also make the API more complicated; in this case filtering results. 

Nick: also make model, serial number and firmware revision. 

Geoff: And an element called config. Except for model/number/firmware, the others could be seen as session attributes and/or user preferences. 

From non-techie user POVs, the might not have skills to figure out firmware version etc. So user agent stuff should probably remain postable.

Kenny: supportsGroupedQuestions/multipleChoices; on the basis on that the service provider creates menus etc.

Geoff: suggest that we go through the ReadingSystemAttributes and see if we can clean up some more. 

''Geoff: close Issue 6 as wontfix.''

''Note - session on F2F further reduction of ReadingSystemAttributes''


=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=5 Issue 5] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=7 Issue 7] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=8 Issue 8] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=9 Issue 9] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=10 Issue 10] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=12 Issue 12] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=13 Issue 13] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=14 Issue 14] ===

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=15 Issue 15] ===


=== Geoffs suggested actions on 5-15 excl 6 ===

Issues 
[http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=7 7], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=8 8], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=9 9], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=10 10] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=14 14] have no comments in them and are actionable, so the changes will be adopted.

[http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=15 Issue 15] states that a requirement that was already marked as a duplicate "may be uneccessary".  This issue will be marked Invalid.


Issues 
[http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=5 5], [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=12 12] and [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=13 13] are requests for clarification.  Since no one has been able to clarify them, the requirements will be removed.(Markus notes: issue 13 may be related to content provider discovery)

== Is service provider discovery in or out of scope for this version of the protocol? ==
DAISY is ready to host a service provider directory, but the question remains whether we can live without it in this version. 

Jelle: configuration can be done after delivery, online.

Markus: concerns have been raised to allow commercial or free service providers to offer their services and be dynamically hooked up to the "web".

@markus check with george/board on whether this req remains for this version, or if we can postpone. Proposed resolution: it is a player specific feature to allow the user to provide the URLs of new/additional service providers.

== Next concall ==
 * How to use our time best at the F2F
 * Agenda, deliverables
 * 5 requirements issues left (16,17,18,19,90) @Geoff to send issues 1 by 1 to emailing list