#summary TSG telcon 20090623

<wiki:toc max_depth="4" />

Present: Markus, Geoff, Kenny, Simon, Dominic, Jelle

== Action Item Summary ==
=== New Action Items ===
=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
  * Geoff and Kenny to reorganize the requirements. ONGOING
  * Nick to go through the wiki and add comments based on the historical discussions of the group.
  * Kenny to add the https vs getResource issue to the tracker. DONE (88)
  * Markus put all classic TSG req docs on SVN
  * Markus, Kenny draft one or several hypotheses on spec documents reorganization ONGOING

==Agenda/Minutes==

=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=20 issue 20] ===
Geoff: were identified as not compatible with client-server model. 

Kenny: agree with Geoffs suggestions for the first two. However, we have setContentStatus, which might be a droppable function.

Simon: the reason was that the player can report available storage size, and server can prepare a content list for automatic download that doesnt exceed available storage.

Dominic: the use case is to support profile subscriptions.

Geoff: in a client-server model like ours, the client should be making all the decisions. 

Kenny: I was wrong, setContentStatus is about conveying information about whether download has completed etc. 

Geoff: the available space report is in readingSystemAttributes, in the config subelement.

Dominic reiterates the profile subscription use case. It implies a push model. All agree its a valid use case.

Geoff, but it can be achieved in the client-server model; via having the player synchronize with a list provided by the server. 


=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=11 issue 11] ===



 
=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/issues/detail?id=17 issue 17] ===

Geoff: need to elaborate more on this. James posted basic flow of events, which is how a player is supposed to operate. 

Markus: we should ask James at the list. 

 
 
=== [http://code.google.com/p/daisy-online-delivery/wiki/TorontoF2F2009 Face to face] ===
 