# tsg telecon held on 09 June 2009

= 1. Issues and Requirements =

Markus noted that there are 87 issues in the tracker including those on requirements and general comments about the API and DOML.

Kenny and Markus have reviewed Geoff’s comments on the requirements.

Markus proposed producing a clarified requirements documents on the wiki.

Kenny asked whether those clarifying the requirements need to speak to the origanator of each requirement. It was noted that the named person was the originator of the user story not the resultant requirements.

Markus observed that we should be equally clear about out-of-scope as well as in-scope requirements.

Nick asked whether we had requirements – we have user stories and a mapping to functions. Goeff clarified that his comments were referring to the requirements not the user stories.

Markus questioned whether we should republish the user stories. It was suggested that we produce two interlinked documents – one for the requirements and one for the user stories.

Markus asked if all the issues were covered by the requirements and suggested that the answer was no. Geoff noted that requirement 17 dealing with PDTB2 keys was not actually covered.

Markus noted that we have previously agreed that library-to-library exchange is out-of-scope for version 1.

Kenny asked whether we are clarifying the isues in the tracker or are we allowing for additional requirements. Geoff suggested that we re-organise them first and then deal with any issues.

Markus noted that the only extra requirement is about PDTB2 keys which was an original requirement that may have been de-scoped but is now back in scope.

Kenny noted that in an ealrier call it had been suggested that a request for additional comments should be sent to the wider daisy list. Domonic was concerned tha only a few daisy members would support the standard. George commented tha at the board meeting many organisations expressed interrest in using the standard over the next couple of years. George did not think that it would be possible to market the spec to those who are not currently in the group and that there will be a marketing piece when we have a standard for test use.

Markus noted that it is hard to progress a project if one is constantly rechecking scope with different groups of potential users.

Goeff and Kenny offered to reorganise the requirements. Nick offerred to go through the wiki and add comments based on the historical discussions of the group.

George asked how much linkage between requirements an user stories was required. It was agreed that the requirements should back link to user stories.

Markus asked for any non-requirements related issues that have not been posted to the issues tracker. Kenny asked if the issue about the getResource function had been logged. Goeff suggested closing issue 42 as the specifi issue that Geoff had is no longer an issue. 

= 2. GetResource Function and MTOM =

Kenny offerred to add the https vs getResource issue to the tracker.

Geoff offerred to go through James e-mail and add any additional issues to the tracker.

Goeff noted that there is an Apache C library that supports MTOM.

Jelle noted that WSO has gSoap has MTOM support. WSO has support in php and some others.

Geoff felt that there is an issue about using MTOM if we consider interrupted transfer.

Jelle felt that the overhead was not necessarily mitigated by MTOM as the server can still use base64 encoding.

Simon felt that as long as there are tools for MTOM there is no problem.

Hiro agreed with Simon.

Jelle asked if http was sitll an option alongside getResource.

Markus preferred a single method.

Jelle did not wish to drop http.

Nick asked what was the reason for preferring a single method rather that an choice of two and if there is no 33 percent additonal bandwidth use what other issue was there.

Jelle outlined what supporting both methods would mean – that players would implement both methods and the service provider can choose.

George asked if they were mutually exclusive.

Geoff observed that there may be future cases involving requesting content from a further organisation where you might want both methods in the same service.

Kenny noted that there are ways of performing the content abstraction via http / https.

Nick suggested that we drop the getResource functiion.

Jelle suggested that the reading system manufacturers have the final say and that the service can handle the logging functions which lead to the creation of getResource.

Nick noted that authenticaion of users was also simpler via getResource.

Kenny suggested that the protocol need not concern itself with the abstraction that getResource provides.

Jelle expressed concern that handelling of range headers etc through scripts on servers was easy to get wrong.

Goeff suggested that the test suite include http requests containing range headers.

Kenny mentioned that dropping MTOM means more to the spec than the getResource function eg the Message fragment also includes MTOM for embedded audio.

We agreed to suggest dropping MTOM everywhere and getResource and to consider the ramifications on the list.

= 3. Next Steps =

Markus suggested that specification rebuild in the first next step. This would cover the required / optional API. 

Markus offered to provide a sample rebuild of the specification.

George asked if thsi would remove the need for a seperate primer.

Markus replied that the new structure would probalby mix normative and informative sections.

Markus suggested that the ontology document could be generated from the spec rather than authored seperately.

George expressed preferenc for a single document.

Markus noted that we need to maintain a change log for API changes.

= 4. Face to Face Meeting =

George noted that the board wants the spec delivered as soon as possible and is willing to accept a “draft standard for test use” by mid september ready for the meeting in late september.

Markus suggested a four day long face-to-face in July / August. CNIB offerred to host such a meeting in Toronto.

Geoff offerred to provide some alternative dates for a meeting.

= 5. Actions =

Goeff and Kenny to reorganise the requirements.

Nick to go through the wiki and add comments based on the historical discussions of the group.

Kenny to add the https vs getResource issue to the tracker.

Geoff to go through James e-mail and add any additional issues to the tracker.

Markus to provide a sample rebuild of the specification.

Geoff to provide some alternative dates for a face-to-face meeting.

