
Present: Matt, Geoff, Nick, Jelle, Simon and Kenny. 

Regrets: Markus and George. 

== Action Item Summary ==
 
=== New Action Items ===

* Markus fix the &pos; entity problem.
  * Geoff post the External Consultants comments to the issue tracker (done)

=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
  * Jelle: propose resolution to Issue 118 {DONE?}
  * Geoff and Markus analyze RequirementsDocument vs current API. {ONGOING}

== Agenda/Minutes ==

=== Last minute issues ===

geoff: CNIB submitted the draft to an external consultant. There are three pages of technical comments. Consultant is suggesting a reorganisation of the spec. 

matt: I am not convinced that the spec requires reorganisation. I think the issue is more clarification.

geoff: There are assumptions that have been made about the spec that are not true.  

Geoff: I will post the issues to the issue tracker.

matt: There is an &apos; entity in the spec that causes issues in IE. Firefox seems to be fine with this. Markus will need to fix this as a post processing step (perhaps globally replace &pos;)

kenny: The same issue exists in the zed AI spec documentation. 

Kenny: In the light of the recommendations of the external consultant, can we still submit the spec to the daisy board.

geoff and matt: As far as the protocol is concerned, we are done, so we should be fine submitting the spec to the Daisy Board. 

kenny: We could modify the spec even after the endorsement.

=== Process going  forward === 

kenny: On the 25th of September, the spec will be closed for public comment. If the WG is happy for the spec to be endorsed as a draft standard for test use at that stage, markkus and george will submit the 

spec to board on TSG's behalf.

matt: If there are fundamental problems, we will need to resolve them.

kenny: Should we be holding weekly telecons once the spec is signed off by the Daisy board?   

geoff: I don't think weekly telecons are necessary.

matt: After the spec is endorsed by the Daisy Board, it would be time for implementations. Weekly telecons don't need to be held in this period. Telecons should be held on a per need basis. 

nick: Is there an issue tracker where people would report issues?

geoff: There are two mediums to submit comments: Our public Google Issue Tracker and the feedback form available on the DC website.

geoff: The form on the DC website is problematic. People should use the issue tracker. Everything is in one place that way.

nick: We should ask DC to fix the web form.

geoff: Its not broken; it just goes to a private mailing list.

matt: Are there any official reviews going on of the spec?

nick: The bigger group knows that we are on the way to getting endorsement from the board so we should hopefully not get any last minute comments.   


