<wiki:toc max_depth="5" />

Present: George, Simon, Jelle, Geoff, Matt, Markus, Nick, Kenny

Regrets: 

== Action Item Summary ==
 
=== New Action Items ===

=== Previous Unfinished Action Items ===
  * Jelle: propose resolution to Issue 118
  * Geoff and Markus analyze RequirementsDocument vs current API. {ONGOING}

== Agenda/Minutes ==

Target: solve the below and distribute action items to implement changes


=== Faults ===
  * Add a dedicated fault when invoking an operation when session has expired? 
    * (Is a fault code embedded in invalidOperationFault an alternative?)
  * expanding the Fault documentation prose - who?

*Resolution*: Markus add: NoActiveSession Fault : cover both expiration and not logged in. Throwable by all except logon.

*Geoff clarify session in terminology*

*Markus: expand prose for all faults


=== Borrow/Return ===
Matt: 
 In addition to the other todo remarks in the Content Return section, 
 the only mention  made in the specification about borrowing content 
 is one sentence in this return section.
 
 The section should probably be renamed to "Lending Content" and have 
 subsections for borrowing and returning. And be moved into 5.4.

*Resolution: Geoff to add prose*


=== Return date ===

  * Do we need an explicit return date in contentMetadata (when @requiresReturn=true)

*Resolution*: Markus add optional attribute *returnBy*, optional even when requiresReturn is set to true, and must not be present when requires return is false. 

*Markus: *Make *requiresReturn* optional, default to false.


=== Normative/Informative ===
Matt: 
 One thing I have noticed is some inconsistency in applying the 
 normative/informative designation on chapters/sections. Would be 
 good to have someone in the group go through after I'm done and 
 re-apply those consistently to whatever scheme the group wants 
 to use for them.

*Resolution: Markus go through*

=== Service Models ===

Keep/remove? If removed, spec needs to be generalized.

*Resolution:* Geoff take a stab at rewrite


=== Reading System Conformance Requirements ===
  * Section still marked as TODO. How to approach this?
 
*Resolution:* Matt: take section 3 out, may reintroduce after draft stage.


=== Terminology ===

Matt: 
 So, to be 100% sure we're on the same page. Operations are 
 operations. Primary types are types. Then all the
 elements/attributes in the element reference section will 
 be referred to by their xml types?


*Resolution* Matt fix it.


=== rules surrounding the issueContent and getContentResources operations ===
*Resolution*: Matt: make sure we have *may* throw fault at getContentList when issue has not been called prior.
 
=== Move Appendix B to separate informative dynamic menus primer ===

*Resolution*: Markus do this. Remove Appendix, list from top of doc somehow instead.


=== Collect and add complete contributor list ===
*Markus*: make all three lists. 


=== Check if we can reintroduce some of the samples into the types section ===
*Markus*: add Geoff's contentResources for PDTB2 DTB, contentMetadata?, then notify Geoff 


=== AOB ===
Nick. Notifies the group of the existance, IMDA Internet Media Device Alliance. We should investigate and see what the connections are.